[docs] Add the CircleCI + LambdaTest guide (#5716)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/guides/continuous-integration/circleci-and-lambdatest.md

---
layout: docs
title: Run Tests on LambdaTest with CircleCI
permalink: /documentation/guides/continuous-integration/circleci-and-lambdatest.html
---
# Run Tests on LambdaTest with CircleCI

This topic describes how to integrate TestCafe into the [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) build process and run tests in the [LambdaTest](https://www.lambdatest.com) cloud testing service.

## Prerequisites

> In this tutorial, we will fetch tests from a GitHub repository: [testcafe-ci-demo](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/testcafe-ci-demo). Fork this repository before we start.

Reviewer: do we need to fork or we can just clone?

Author: When a user logs in to CircleCI (or Travis), it shows repos that belong to the user or their organization, so I guess they must fork, right?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we fetch tests from a GitHub repository: [testcafe-ci-demo](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/testcafe-ci-demo). Fork this repository before you start.
```

> If you use a different version control system, make sure CircleCI supports it. To learn which systems it supports, refer to the [CircleCI Integrations](https://circleci.com/integrations/) page.

## Step 1 - Install TestCafe and Create Tests

Install TestCafe [locally](../basic-guides/install-testcafe.md#local-installation) in your project and [create tests](../../getting-started/README.md#creating-a-test).

## Step 2 - Create a New CircleCI Project

Log in to CircleCI using your GitHub account.

If this is the first time you are using CircleCI, you will start from an empty workspace. Click the **Add Project** button to create your first project.

![Click the Add Project Button](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/add-project.png)

You will see the list of GitHub projects associated with your account.

Find `testcafe-ci-demo` and click **Set Up project**.

![Set Up Project](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/set-up-project.png)

## Step 3 - Configure the Build

> On the project configuration page, select **Node** as the target platform and paste the following configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the project configuration page, open a drop-down list and select **Node** as the target platform. Paste the following configuration:
```

`store_test_results`    | Uploads test results to the specified directory (see [store_test_results](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_test_results)).
`workflows`             | A [workflow](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/) that runs the `test` job.

After you pasted the YAML, click **Add Config**.

![Click Add Config to save the configuration](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/circleci-config.png)

## Step 4 - Specify LambdaTest Credentials

CircleCI allows you to assign sensitive information, like user credentials or access keys, to the CI project so that you do not keep secret values in the repository.

Open the **Dashboard** view and select the `testcafe-ci-demo` project from the drop-down list:

![Select a project from the drop-down list](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/select-project.png)

Click **Project Settings**:

![Click the Project Settings button](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/project-settings.png)

Open the **Environment Variables** category and click **Add Environment Variable**:

![Click the Add Environment Variable button in Project Settings](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/add-env-variable.png)

> In a separate browser tab or window, open the LambdaTest app and click **Automation** in the navigation bar:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a separate browser tab or window, open the [LambdaTest app(https://www.lambdatest.com/) and click **Automation** in the navigation bar:
```

In CircleCI, enter `LT_USERNAME` as the variable name, paste the copied value below, and click **Add Environment Variable**:

![Add the LT_USERNAME environment variable in CircleCI](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/specify-secret-variable.png)

In the same manner, copy the *access key* from LambdaTest and create the `LT_ACCESS_KEY` environment variable in CircleCI to store this key.

## Step 5 - Install the LambdaTest Browser Provider and JUnit XML Reporter

Install the following npm packages locally in your project directory:

* [testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest) – the LambdaTest browser provider that enables TestCafe to run tests in the LambdaTest cloud,
* [testcafe-reporter-xunit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/testcafe-reporter-xunit) – the JUnit XML reporter that generates test run reports in the XML format. CircleCI can process XML reports and display test results in the UI.

Run the following command to install both packages:

```sh
npm install --save-dev testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest testcafe-reporter-xunit
```

> Commit the `package-lock.json` file generated by npm into the repository. This file allows CircleCI to use a fast `npm ci` command to install the dependencies.

Reviewer 3: Maybe that's obvious but still
```suggestion
Commit the `package-lock.json` file generated by npm into the repository and push the changes. This file allows CircleCI to use a fast `npm ci` command to install the dependencies.
```

## Step 6 - Add the `test` script to package.json

> To specify how CircleCI should launch TestCafe, add the `test` script to the project's `package.json` file. Use the `testcafe` command in the script to run tests on LambdaTest.

Reviewer 3: I've followed the instructions and `package.json` has not been created for me. Had to create one manually.

We probably need to run this beforehand:

```sh
npm init -y
```

Author: Yep, definitely! Created an empty `package.json` in the upstream.

```json
"scripts": {
  "test": "testcafe \"lambdatest:Chrome@85.0:Windows 10\" tests/**/* -r xunit:/tmp/test-results/res.xml"
}
```

After you install the dependencies and specify the `test` script, `package.json` should look as follows:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "testcafe \"lambdatest:Chrome@85.0:Windows 10\" tests/**/* -r xunit:/tmp/test-results/res.xml"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "testcafe": "*",
    "testcafe-reporter-xunit": "*",
    "testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest": "*"
  }
}
```

> For more information on how to configure a test run with the `testcafe` command, see [Command Line Interface](../../reference/command-line-interface.md).

Reviewer 3: After I push `package.json`, tests don't run for me. I deleted the project and added it back. Now I get the following error when I paste the config:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49588154/99641514-6fbd4e80-2a5b-11eb-9cc7-076feaf4bbb3.png)

Maybe we should go with manually adding `.circleci/config.yml`?

Reviewer 3: UPD. I commited and pushed the `.circleci/config.yml`. When I try to build, I get the following error: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/49588154/99642020-1275cd00-2a5c-11eb-98e5-b0d50e0f15f2.png)

Author: Fixed by mentioning the right branch to push to...

---
layout: docs
title: Run Tests on LambdaTest with CircleCI
permalink: /documentation/guides/continuous-integration/circleci-and-lambdatest.html
---
# Run Tests on LambdaTest with CircleCI

This topic describes how to integrate TestCafe into the [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/) build process and run tests in the [LambdaTest](https://www.lambdatest.com) cloud testing service.

## Prerequisites

In this tutorial, we will fetch tests from a GitHub repository: [testcafe-ci-demo](https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/testcafe-ci-demo). Fork this repository before we start.

> > If you use a different version control system, make sure CircleCI supports it. To learn which systems it supports, refer to the [CircleCI Integrations](https://circleci.com/integrations/) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> If you use a different control system version, make sure CircleCI supports it. For information on which systems you can use, refer to the [CircleCI Integrations](https://circleci.com/integrations/) page.
```

Author: I didn't mean `control system version`, it's `version control system` (or `version-control system`), like Git:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git

Reviewer 2: Ok

## Step 1 - Install TestCafe and Create Tests

Install TestCafe [locally](../basic-guides/install-testcafe.md#local-installation) in your project and [create tests](../../getting-started/README.md#creating-a-test).

## Step 2 - Create a New CircleCI Project

Log in to CircleCI using your GitHub account.

> If this is the first time you are using CircleCI, you will start from an empty workspace. Click the **Add Project** button to create your first project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this is the first time you use CircleCI, you will start from an empty workspace. Click the **Add Project** button to create your first project.
```

![Click the Add Project Button](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/add-project.png)

> You will see the list of GitHub projects associated with your account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to show a list of GitHub projects associated with your account.
```

Reviewer 2: combine this with the previous sentence

Author: You mean this sentence?

> ![Click the Add Project Button](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/add-project.png)

This is image's alt text, it won't be displayed.

Reviewer 2: Ok, then change it to: 

```suggestion
This shows a list of GitHub projects associated with your account.
```

> Find `testcafe-ci-demo` and click **Set Up project**.

Reviewer 2: Find it where? Can we say 'Navigate to' instead?

Author: In the list mentioned in the previous paragraph. If I merge these two paragraphs into one, is it okay?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that is ok

`steps`                 | The job's [steps](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/jobs-steps/#steps-overview).
`checkout`              | Checks out code from the `testcafe-ci-demo` repository. This is a pre-defined step (see [checkout](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#checkout)).
`node/install-packages` | A step from the `node` orb that installs the project's dependencies (see [install-packages](https://circleci.com/developer/orbs/orb/circleci/node#commands-install-packages)).
`run`                   | The [run](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#run) step invokes shell commands. In this example, `run` executes the `npm test` script.
`store_test_results`    | Uploads test results to the specified directory (see [store_test_results](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/configuration-reference/#store_test_results)).
`workflows`             | A [workflow](https://circleci.com/docs/2.0/workflows/) that runs the `test` job.

After you pasted the YAML, click **Add Config**.

![Click Add Config to save the configuration](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/circleci-config.png)

> CircleCI creates the `circleci-project-setup` branch in the repo and commits the `.circleci/config.yml` file to this branch. In this tutorial, you will commit and push your further changes to `circleci-project-setup`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CircleCI creates the `circleci-project-setup` branch in the repo and commits the `.circleci/config.yml` file to this branch. In this tutorial, we commit and push further changes to `circleci-project-setup`.
```

![Navigate to the Automation page in the LambdaTest app](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/lambdatest-automation.png)

Click ![Key icon](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/lambdatest-key-icon.png) to display the access key info. Copy the *username*:

![Copy the username from LambdaTest Access Key Info](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/lambdatest-credentials.png)

In CircleCI, enter `LT_USERNAME` as the variable name, paste the copied value below, and click **Add Environment Variable**:

![Add the LT_USERNAME environment variable in CircleCI](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/specify-secret-variable.png)

In the same manner, copy the *access key* from LambdaTest and create the `LT_ACCESS_KEY` environment variable in CircleCI to store this key.

## Step 5 - Install the LambdaTest Browser Provider and JUnit XML Reporter

Install the following npm packages locally in your project directory:

* [testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest) – the LambdaTest browser provider that enables TestCafe to run tests in the LambdaTest cloud,

> * [testcafe-reporter-xunit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/testcafe-reporter-xunit) – the JUnit XML reporter that generates test run reports in the XML format. CircleCI can process XML reports and display test results in the UI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [testcafe-reporter-xunit](https://www.npmjs.com/package/testcafe-reporter-xunit) – the JUnit XML reporter that generates test run reports in XML format. CircleCI can process XML reports and display test results in the UI.
```

## Step 6 - Add the `test` script to package.json

To specify how CircleCI should launch TestCafe, add the `test` script to the `package.json` file. Use the `testcafe` command in the script to run tests on LambdaTest.

```json
"scripts": {
  "test": "testcafe \"lambdatest:Chrome@85.0:Windows 10\" tests/**/* -r xunit:/tmp/test-results/res.xml"
}
```

After you install the dependencies and specify the `test` script, `package.json` should look as follows:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "test": "testcafe \"lambdatest:Chrome@85.0:Windows 10\" tests/**/* -r xunit:/tmp/test-results/res.xml"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "testcafe": "*",
    "testcafe-reporter-xunit": "*",
    "testcafe-browser-provider-lambdatest": "*"
  }
}
```

Commit it to the `circleci-project-setup` branch and push the changes.

For more information on how to configure a test run with the `testcafe` command, see [Command Line Interface](../../reference/command-line-interface.md).

## Step 7 - View Test Results

Once you commit the `package.json` changes in the previous step, the build is triggered against `circleci-project-setup`. The CircleCI Dashboard shows the results in the pipeline.

> Click the job name to see the details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the job name to show the details.
```

![View the pipeline in the Dashboard](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/view-pipeline.png)

The job view displays information about the completed job including the run duration, latest commit, and build log:

![Job details in the Dashboard](../../../images/circleci-lambdatest/view-job.png)

## Conclusion

> A testing configuration for CircleCI and LambdaTest is now set up in the `circleci-project-setup` branch. In a real-world project, you would now create a pull request to merge the configuration into the `master` branch.

Reviewer 2: Why do you add a conclusion section? If you read a tutorial about how to configure something, you would be able to configure it after the last step. Otherwise, what is the point of the tutorial?

Author: For the sake of the second sentence.

I wanted to say that, normally, users would need to create a pull request to `master` but not in this tutorial.

Author: What if I rewrite it as:

## Next Steps

A testing configuration for CircleCI and LambdaTest is now set up in the `circleci-project-setup` branch. In a real-world project, you would now create a pull request to merge the configuration into the `master` branch. However, you can skip this step now because this is out of the tutorial's scope.

Reviewer 2: "you would now create a pull request to merge the configuration into the master branch. However, you can skip this step now because this is out of the tutorial's scope." This is a bit strange. Perhaps:

"you can now create a pull request to merge the configuration into the master branch." and leave it there.
